---
slug: v6-release
title: v6.0
draft: false
layout: whats-new-entry
sitemap: false
subtitle:
- FREE Individual & OSS Licenses
- API Explorer
- Blazor WebAssembly Jamstack Template
- C# Jamstack Templates
feature_url:
- https://docs.servicestack.net/releases/v6
- https://docs.servicestack.net/releases/v6#api-explorer
- https://docs.servicestack.net/templates-blazor
- https://docs.servicestack.net/releases/v6#jamstack
preview_img_url:
- /images/whatsnew/v6/servicestack-100m-976w.png
- /images/whatsnew/v6/api-details-CreateBooking.png
- /images/whatsnew/v6/blazor-wasm.png
- /images/whatsnew/v6/jamstacks-net.png
---

We're starting off 2022 eclipsing an impressive milestone having crossed
[100M+ NuGet downloads](https://www.nuget.org/profiles/servicestack) which we're celebrating by making ServiceStack FREE for Individuals & collaborative OSS Projects.

We've also created 2 new community spaces for ServiceStack developers to engage with each other:

- [ServiceStack/Discuss](https://github.com/ServiceStack/Discuss/discussions/)
- [#ServiceStack channel on Discord](https://discord.gg/w4ayGbuYpA)

These new spaces are welcome to all users of the framework that we hope together with the new free licenses will encourage developers build and share their amazing creations with each other! 🎉

<!--separator-->

Now built into every ServiceStack v6 App is API Explorer - an instant integrated Postman and Swagger UI alternative to quickly Call and Explore your APIs.

The entire API Explorer UI is driven by the rich metadata around your APIs and AppHost's registered plugins capturing greater knowledge about your APIs and is able to provide a smarter, richer and more optimized UX than what would be possible going through lowest common denominator specs like Open API.

With envious performance and unmatched customizability, API Explorer lets you easily incorporate gorgeous, rich, interactive API Documentation API Consumers will love who'll be able to read its source code in their preferred programming language and easily call from their existing Client Apps.

<!--separator-->

Our new Blazor WebAssembly (WASM) template is ideal for teams with strong C# skills building Line Of Business (LOB) applications. Utilizing an API First development model, the C# Blazor front-end is able to take advantage of the clean separation of ServiceStack APIs to enjoy instant frictionless 100% reuse of API Types as-is, without any reliance on any tooling or unproductive out-of-sync code-gen build steps interrupting developers workflow.

Together with new .NET Service Clients Apis it results in the ideal productive dev model to bind Blazor UIs to ServiceStack APIs. 

Templates make use of **ServiceStack.Blazor** a new package of integrated functionality with ServiceStack, inc. JSON API HttpClient Factory, API-enabled base components & themable Bootstrap + Tailwind UI controls.

In addition to TODO MVC and CRUD UI examples demonstrating its productive dev model, it also includes pre-rendering solutions for instant load times & GitHub Actions for effortless optimal Jamstack CDN deployments.

<!--separator-->

ServiceStack's new [jamstacks.net](https://jamstacks.net) templates encapsulates the latest technologies at the forefront of modern web development to deliver both a great developer experience and performant end-user UX.

Jamstack (JavaScript, APIs, and Markup) is a modern architecture pattern to build fast, secure and easy to scale web applications where pre-rendering content, enhancing with JavaScript and leveraging CDN static hosting results in a highly productive, flexible and performant system that takes advantage of CDN edge caches to deliver greater performance & efficiency at lower cost.

It's quickly becoming the preferred architecture for modern web apps with benefits extending beyond performance to improved Security, Scale, Maintainability, Portability, Developer Experience & lower costs with your App's pre-rendered static UI assets on Content Delivery Network (CDN) edge caches close to users locations.

These new templates represent the best-in class experiences for their respective React, Vue & Blazor WASM ecosystems each, packed with features & examples common in many websites including Integrated Auth, rich Markdown content as well as TODOs MVC and CRUD examples with built-in contextual validation binding. As such they're now recommended over our existing SPA and C# MVC Templates.